---
title: "Finger Food"
translationKey: "fingerfood"
date: 2024-01-25

thumb: finger_food.webp
color: 'pink'

official: "https://pandaqi.com/finger-food"

categories: ["design", "programming"]
tags: ["boardgame", "website"]
---

_Finger Food_ is one of my "true" One Paper Games: you truly need just one paper and nothing else!

How? Because you play using your _fingers_! (And the rules are on the board itself.)

Each turn, you simply place one (unused) finger on a new square. Once everybody has used their entire hand, the game is over and you score the squares you selected.

Obviously, this isn't as easy as it sounds: there's a lot of interaction between squares, fingers from opponents, and rules from expansions (such as the _recipe book_).

A game that's extremely easy to teach and start, while providing endless opportunities for strategy and scoring! Just print a few boards, take them with you wherever you go, and you can always instantly play a game with others.

Visit my blog to read [the developer diary](https://pandaqi.com/blog/boardgames/finger-food/) explaining how I designed this game.

## What's special?

This is the first boardgame played using your fingers, as far as I can tell!

Additionally, the rules are entirely _on_ the board. Some of the squares are simply filled with a short sentence (and perhaps image) explaining how you play or how a particular square scores points. Once I figured out that this was _possible_ (and how to do it well), I can't see myself going back to separate rulebooks for my simpler games.

Finally, the _art_ for this game is a mix between art generated by AI and art drawn by myself. This was partially an experiment (how can I prevent leaning on AI too much?) and partially a necessity because AI just would not understand what I want. Almost all sprites have been edited by me, with some of them entirely done by me. 

The goal was, of course, to blend everything into a cohesive style that makes it hard to tell (at a glance) which ones were done by me ;)