---
title: "Kingseat"
translationKey: "kingseat"
date: 2023-12-20

thumb: kingseat.webp
color: 'purple'

official: "https://pandaqi.com/throneless-games/conquer/kingseat/"
devlog: https://pandaqi.com/blog/boardgames/throneless-games/kingseat

categories: ["design", "programming", "writing"]
tags: ["boardgame", "website", "editorial"]
---

_Kingseat_ is a quick social party game, designed for large groups and spaces where you don't have a table.

Each player has a secret allegiance: they win if that team has the most votes by the end. Each round, players stick out a card to vote, and the longest sequence of votes (for the same team) wins. As such, it's your job to pick the right moments to vote for _your_ preferred party. And to figure out whom of the other players is secretly your ally.

The idea was born from the question: "can I design a game you could play in a queue at a theme park?" That's why you can play this game while standing (in something that resembles a circle), with just a small deck of cards.

It was also born from my annoyance with hidden role games (such as Werewolf) that relied on player elimination and wishy-washy deduction. That's why Kingseat eliminates nobody and provides clear reasons to suspect somebody to be on your team (or not).

## What's special?

As mentioned, the game uses one small deck of cards and does not require a table (or any space at all). Turns are simultaneous, the rules are very simple, and it can be immediately paused or resumed.

It's admittedly not the _best_ game to play in a queue. It ended up a bit longer and more strategic than expected, which means it's not the ideal candidate. But it was the first idea I had and opened the flood gates to even better ideas for games to play in queues. (Which will surely arrive in the near future.)

Also, a previous game of mine ([Sixpack](/en/design/boardgame/sixpack)) taught me the power of providing expansions as separate "packs". I did the same for this game. There are a number of different "political parties" in the game, each with their own color, icon and special action. _You_ decide which you want to include in your game, adding endless variation and replayability.

All of this material is, as always, generated by my website on the fly. So _you_ can even decide what material you want to print, saving paper and ink.